Question 5.5.2. Question 2. Exam Style Questions.
The circumference. C. of a given circle can be represented by: C(A)
equals 2pisquare root of A over pi where A is the area
of the circle. for 0 less than or equal to A less
than or equal to 24. This question is worth 5 marks.
Find the value of C(24). [1 mark]
C(24) equals 2pisquare root of 24 over pi
equals 2pi times 2.764... equals 17.4 (3 s.f.)
C(24) approximately 17.4
Draw the graph of the inverse function C inverse. [3 marks]
Reflect the graph of C(A) in the line y equals x.
Key points: (0. 0) stays. (24. 17.4) maps to (17.4. 24).
The inverse curves upward (like a parabola)
since the original was a square root.
Parabola-like curve from (0. 0) through (17.4. 24).
Explain the meaning of C inverse(2pi) equals pi. [1 mark]
Put it in context: C inverse converts circumference to area.
A circle with circumference 2pi has area pi.
(This is the unit circle. r equals 1.)
IB exam tip: "Explain the meaning" questions: state what the input
represents. what the output represents. and connect them in context.